HTTP: Hypertext Transfer Protocol - The conditions and structure that are put in place when client browsers make requests with host servers to access website information. 
URL: Uniform Resource Locator: The way in which the client accesses web pages. It identifies the specific location of the host server and the resources, namely the specific web page, that the client browser is attempting to access. URLs can access HTML web pages, as well as file transfers between clients on private networks.
DNS: Domain Name System is a naming system responsible for locating the specific IP address, or location/identity of the web page that is being attempted to be access via a URL entry. It takes the URL domain name and conducts a reverse lookup of all domain names of host servers and responds to the client with the correct location and site information in its IP address form.
Query String: A query string is the last segment of a URL name that helps filter and find specific resources and information located on a host server, provided that the resources or data being queried does exist on the host server's resources.

Two HTTP Verbs are GET and POST. They are methods in which a client requests specific information(ie:the web page resource itself) from the host server it is attempting to access. GET Requests are typical of accessing resources from the URL, a websites links and some form submissions (that do not involve changing server data). GET requests can specify information from the web resource in the form of a URL query. POST Requests on the other hand deliver a payload from the client browser to the host server, requesting to change specific data on the host server ("side effects"). When a POST request specifies data, it includes the the data being requested in the body of the request. 

HTTP Request: A client browser is attempting to access a host server's web page and does so via a request method, which varies based on the type of information being requested or impacted. The request is made to a the host server to access it's resources and specifies the parameters of the resources being sought, either explicitly or default based on the client's location, network. 
HTTP Response: The host server's response to a client browser's request to access the resources on their server. 
HTTP Header: The information being requested by the client is included in the request header. Such information may be language, style. Information included in the header include the method of the request (eg: GET/POST), the version of HTTP, the host name.

When you type http://somesite.com/some/page.html into the browser, the client requests web resources from the host website. First the client attempts to locate the host by either checking it's cached URL history, the router's cached history, or the ISP server and lastly attempts to locate from the Domain Name Server. In any of the above, if the host is found, it returns the IP address of the hosts server. Once the IP is received by the client, it converts the hostname, site.com, into it's corresponding IP Address. It then attempts to connect to the server via a request at the host's port. If the port number is not specified, it will depend on the type of host being requested (if http, port 80. if https, port 443). Next the client will attempt to access the host server's specific resource that was specified in the URL, /some/page.htm.
